# Protobuf Schema Database

Stores a copy of your existing database (ie FileDescriptorSet) in a local file
which is easily accessible.

Using the stored FileDescriptorSet you can then easily
 - share schema information
 - acess schema information for tools (eg Charles Proxy, printproto)
 - run tools to modify the schema
 - generate code for any language
 - ~~detect breaking changes~~


# Naming Ideas
- pbschema 
- proto-schema
- protodb
- descriptordb

# Basic Usage

## Staging changes
When .proto files can be parsed and merged into the FileDescriptorSet
database with the `stage` command.  This can be run multiple times to
add new .proto files.  Files can be committed multiple times as long
as their definition is exactly the same.
```
proto-schema-db stage protobuf/src//google/protobuf/*.proto
proto-schema-db stage proto//**/*.proto protobuf/src//google/**/*.proto
```

## Committing Snapshots
After protos have been staged, a complete "snapshot" of the FileDescriptorSet
can be committed.  Once a snapshot is committed, no futher changes can be made to the snapshot, and a copy will be retained in the history.
```
proto-schema-db snapshot
```

### Snapshot version and labels
A snapshot can be labeled with a unique identifier such as a timestamp, 
git commit hash, CI build number, or a changeset/revision ID.  By default,
the current Unix timestamp in seconds will be used.  Snapshots will
be kept in the storage location with their specific label.  Depending on the
storage used, each label may create a separate copy of the data so be careful
creating too many labels. 
```
proto-schema-db snapshot:aa7e1cc6b proto//**/*.proto protobuf/src//google/protobuf/*.proto
```

# Staging changes
When .proto files have been modified a new snapshot needs to be generated by staging
the new files.
```
proto-schema-db stage proto//**/*.proto protobuf/src//google/protobuf/*.proto
```


# Breaking change detection
While Schema DB _could_ be used for breaking change detection, it's not a
feature we intend to build in the near future (unless someone wants to add it).
We recommend using `buf` for this.

# Schema database storage
Schema database files are stored locally in a directory called `.proto-schema-db/`.
Staged descriptors are stored as `/staged.filedescriptorset.binproto`.
Snapshots are accessible in the database via `/{label}.filedescriptorset.binproto`.
The label for a new snapshot will default to the current Unix timestamp,
if none is provided.  When looking at history, files will be orderd by 
the time last modified.

On local filesystems that support symlinking, these paths may be symlinked
to a backing file so that multiple labels may refer to the same file without
duplicating storage data.  When storing on remote filesystems like GCS or S3,
the snapshot files are always duplicated.

# Configuration
Configuration is stored in `.proto-schema-db/config.yaml`.  

# protodb location
The proto schema db is searched for by looking in the current directory first
and then walking all parent directories until a directory is found.  If no 
directory is found in the parent tree, then the home directory is searched.

# Selecting a snapshot to use
```
proto-schema-db ls
```

# Selecting a snapshot to use
```
proto-schema-db use 'aa7e1cc6b'
```

# Fetching a remote snapshot
Snapshots can be fetched from a remote location via URL.  The label must always
be the last part of the URL without any suffix information.  Snapshots will 
be stored in the local database using the same label.
```
proto-schema-db fetch "gs://my-bucket/${label}"
proto-schema-db fetch "https://bucket.storage.com/snapshots/${label}"
```

# Exporting a database to a file
```
proto-schema-db export saved-file-descriptor-set.pb
proto-schema-db export - >saved-file-descriptor-set.pb
```

# Accessing the current datasbase
You can always access the current snapshot via the symlink `.proto-schema-db'.
```
protoc --descriptor_set_in .proto-schema-db/current
```
